The peace made after Orin's killing of Nero lasted only a couple centuries as the Humans and Creatures turned up against each other. This was a slow process that took decades to explode as after Nero was defeated and the darkness fended off Humans had taken control of everything, with the creatures living under human rule now. Small conflicts had started that turned into a full scale war in 10100BC.

Humans had found ways to tap into the powers of the Phoenix and the Raven. These were rituals and spells done by non chosen and non heralds to gain access to the power. They used that to defeat the creatures. A massacre was done, almost 8 out of 10 of the creatures were wiped out during the war that lasted almost a 100 years. The remaining creatures fled north towards a region between the Zorian peaks and the Northern sea.

This knowledge was too dangerous to stay in the hands of the people.  In 9900 BC the incident also known as the cleansing was done to end this normal usage of the powers. The masters of the time travelled across the world to find out the people holding the power and they stole the scrolls and any information the normal folk had regarding the powers. The spells and rituals were not easy to do so no one had them exactly memorized also they had to be done again and again to keep the power active. Those who had tapped into the Raven's power were corrupted, the only option was to kill them once the power faded after the scrolls were taken away. A huge massacre was done to get rid of those. 

The masters destroyed the scrolls and books containing those spells and knowledge about how to tap into that power. 